# ACMDD_REPORT
**Andrianopoulou Vasiliki (s3222160)
Byrne Vania (s3254062)
Patra Athina (s3364348)
Protein of interest: JNK-1
PDB ID: 2GMX** 

**1. INTRODUCTION**
c-Jun N-terminal kinase-1 (JNK-1) is a member of the superfamily of MAP kinases (Mitogen Activated Protein kinases) and is alternatively described with the name MAPK8 (PDB ID 2GMX). The MAPK8 gene is located in the 10q11.22 chromosomal locus and encodes for a 427 amino acids protein of a molecular weight of 48 kDa. MAP kinases bind and phosphorylate other proteins in Serine/Threonine (Ser/Thr) residues in order to activate them and are involved in a plethora of cellular processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation, development, and apoptosis. Additionally, JNK kinases are highly conserved among species and consist of 10 isoforms resulting from several alternative splicing events in three genes; four isoforms derived from JNK-1, four isoforms derived from JNK-2, and three isoforms derived from JNK-3. Moreover, JNK-1 and JNK-2 often have redundant functions and are ubiquitously expressed in most human tissues, whilst JNK-3 is mainly expressed in the brain and testes. JNK proteins consist of a small N-terminal domain with β-strands and a large C-terminal domain with α-helices. The N-terminal domain connects with the C-terminal domain through a flexible hinge-like region, where a cleft with the ATP-binding site can be found.
JNK1 is activated by dual phosphorylation of Threonine (Thr) and Tyrosine (Tyr) residues in the Thr-Pro-Tyr motif located in the kinase subdomain VIII of the protein by MAP2K4/MKKK4 and MAP2K7/MKKK7, and acquires its inactive form after dephosphorylation by Ser/Thr and Tyr phosphatases. MAP kinases are activated due to cellular stress stimuli, such as pro-inflammatory cytokines, changes in the ROS (reactive oxygen species) levels, heat shock, UV irradiation, hypoxia, and chemotoxins. Upregulation of JNK-1 has been associated with several types of cancer development and progression, such as human pancreatic, lung, breast, skin cancer, B-lymphoma, and osteosarcoma, thus JNK-1 is considered a proto-oncogene. JNK-1 regulates the activity of various proteins such as c-Jun, ATF-2, p53, c-Myc, and STAT3, which are either located in the cytoplasm or migrate to the nucleus to activate transcription factors. Activation of the JNK pathway is associated with the coordination of scaffold proteins of the JNK activation complex that amplify the biochemical signal. 
Much collaborative effort has been made to produce small molecule JNK-1 inhibitors to circumvent tumorigenesis associated with JKN signalling. A plethora of such inhibitors has been developed that are ATP-competitive or ATP-non-competitive with reversible binding, selective or non-selective of specific JNK isoforms, some of which have already reached clinical trials. In this project, we particularly focused on two JNK-1 inhibitors, namely Tanzisertib (CC-930) and CC-401 that reached clinical trial phases IIa and I, before being retrieved from further research. These compounds were used by our group as models to generate our own molecules for docking studies. More specifically, Tanzisertib (CC-930) is a first-generation potent, ATP-competitive inhibitor, selective for JNK proteins. It was used for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and discoid lupus erythematosus, but due to efficacy issues, it was discontinued in 2012. Lastly, CC-401 is a second-generation potent ATP-competitive JNK inhibitor. It has been used for renal injury studies and was discontinued after clinical phase I, for acute myeloid leukemia. Nonetheless, both of these compounds could be used as starting points in our project and show promising potential as tools in docking. Perhaps small alterations of these molecules could result in the development of better selective JNK inhibitors in the future with high efficiency and low adverse effects.
Below follows the python code that was used in the search for novel JNK-1 inhibitors.
